So now that we've built an online portfolio using Adobe Portfolio I thought I would also talk about
big hands.
Dot com bee hands is owned by Adobe but this what's great about bee hands is it's absolutely free to
sign up for an account.
It's basically a social media site for creative freelancers and other creatives not just freelancers
but anybody in the creative business and any type of creative business.
So photography web design graphic design illustration even copywriting all all sorts of things are represented
here if you're a creative freelancer you have to be on big hands.
I've noticed a lot of people getting jobs some students getting jobs through B.A. by just posting some
strong work and it was shared and it was featured and they happened to get a job because a potential
clients all that work saw that it was featured and they contacted them.
So it's a great way to kind of find work.
It's going to take a while to get to that point you have to have an incredibly amazing project to really
kind of stand out from the crowd because it's a very overcrowded space.
There's a lot of creative freelancers on here vying for the attention of ad agencies and other clients
who might be kind of looking for talent here.
So it's so don't expect to just get jobs falling from the sky but at least it's a first step because
having a profile on here is better than not.
And it doesn't take a lot of time to set up so we're gonna just go through the very basics of getting
it set up.
And if you're already familiar with the Dobie portfolio which we just kind of I just did a little sample
overview of that in the last few lessons then you'll be right at home because it's the very same builder
to build out your projects.
So here is your portfolio or your profile I guess I should say on bee hence make sure you have if you
have your Web site.
This is why having the Web site is so important.
We're all also going to be doing a wordpress kind of reviewing that and a few other Web site options
but go and get that Web site going to be posting it everywhere when we do our marketing where we do
our social media campaigns.
So you get a need to have that so you can go ahead and list as many projects as you want.
Of course less is more.
But this is kind of more of a social media account.
So as you come up with new projects and client work you know post this as you continually get more projects
because it's only going to give you more exposure.
And when you post will go over this in a little bit when you post a new project you can put in certain
tags and terms search terms in there so if someone searches letterhead design or someone searches product
photography you'll have those tags as a part of your project and you have a chance to be shown in the
search results.
So we'll go over how to properly do that soon.
So yeah going to be able to put your titles so make sure you have kind of a title developed for yourself
and also that bio is going to come in handy Of course when you're doing online profile social media
type bios you may want to tweak it a little bit you can be a little bit more raw and natural and a little
more authentic.
You don't have to be so much like you're applying for a job you can be a little bit more friendly and
open and honest with your bios for social media.
So let's go ahead and get started.
I'm going to start a new project to go up here to create a new project.
And so this will be very similar to to the last web builder we worked with.
You got to be able to add files text or be a boat to embed YouTube videos or anything that has embed
code.
You also going to be able to create gallery or photo grids.
So we're gonna build this out just like we would a landing page on a project on a Web site.
So it's going to be very similar bigger the better in terms of photos you really want to show off the
visual creative skills you have and make sure you have big photos that go all the way across the page
for the for the B Hantz type of items so be Hantz projects are a little less focused on the description
and a little more focused on this visual.
So this is an example of a really strong post.
There's not a lot of text involved in describing the whole project like it would on your personal portfolio.
So they're focusing on the images and they're big and they're beautiful nicely crafted photos here you
can see there's not a lot of words describing each thing because it's pretty obvious what what we're
kind of looking at the photos kind of help describe the project so the easiest thing to do is get all
of your project images ready and crafted so all you do is load these in so we're going to do just that
I have all these photos ready all the mockups and everything that I did to create this project I'm gonna
go ahead and upload all the files at once everything in my folder and it's going to do it in a random
order but that's OK because we're gonna be able to reorder our projects and once all those load in you
go up to any edit of any photo and I'll have a little option that says reorder project we're going to
reorder the project we can shift these around any way we'd like we have our already kind of had that
as my headline photo or my start or photo and we can order these any way we want.
So I'm gonna go ahead and click on save any order and see how it looks like and see how quick it is
to to kind of create this you can also add a description text anything here if you wanted to kind of
have a project header push your project will already have a project name so you can go ahead and describe
what your project is using the project name so you have the chance to kind of put a little buffer there
in terms of having some margin or not you can have it be full screen so I'm looking through the order
here I think this is probably very zoomed in I kind of want to show a little bit more of these two photos
side by side so I'm gonna go ahead and delete this project or delete that image and I'm going to do
this side by side so what I'm going to do is I'm going to insert a gallery I'm gonna go and click on
this icon right here and I'm going to upload both of those files and I'm going to load them side by
side.
And what's great about that is it's not so zoomed in I'm able to kind of really see those projects together
so you can also do galleries to do side by side photos if you feel like a photo is going to be way too
zoomed in you're not going to be able to see the details especially with photography that's another
way you can do it is putting two side by sides together and of course you could do more than two if
you wanted to and it scrolls down you can also add video as well you can do an embed so we can go up
here and in bed here's the embed link I can copy and paste from YouTube my promo video for this.
This is my promo video that I want to also embed and might be hands profile I think videos go a long
way in helping describe projects.
Big fan of videos so I'm gonna go ahead and embed this clicking on the embed option when I go to share
and I'm just going to pop that into here and it's going to embed that video for me.
So if we want to include that at the bottom or the beginning of our project I think video is very very
helpful.
And selling yourself or you can edit styles and layout there's going to be spacing stylings are going
to go down here and see the spacing between these is almost none but you can increase and decrease it
and also change the background colors if you want to do black this is a simple project that does not
need descriptions but you can also add type in here as well.
If you want to add descriptions so the most important part about posting a project on big hands is the
tags and the descriptions that you put when you post it.
Let's go and click on Save and we're going to continue.
And this is the most vital part of everything.
Putting it together is the easy part because we already had those so project title.
You want to use a title that has a lot of keywords that of people that would be searching for your type
of creative skills.
So if you're a web designer you might want to put you x y.
That's something that's a part of your project.
So I'm gonna do logo design and branding project for Pacific calm and so I have logo design and branding
so those are some keywords that are already in there.
Course it does limit you to how many words and letters that you can use.
So cover photo.
This is what people will see went on the search that you really need to make this high impact.
A lot of times I like to zoom in on small details instead of having a lot of detail so right about here
could also be the t shirt but I don't feel that really describes the project quite as well.
So let's just stick to the water bottle.
We can even zoom in.
This is a high resolution enough photo looks a little blurry when I do that zoom in on the Golden Ratio
part of the logo design or just stick right to that right.
So we have our thing we can go and crop and continue.
So go ahead and add your creative fields so I can do branding I can do graphic design as well.
Get select up to three.
OK done.
And tools used I can say the software that is more is more detail you can provide the easier searchable
your project will be
you can add copyright or licensing or get over licensing a little bit later in the class but I usually
like to stick with the default unless you have something in mind for that and go ahead and don't forget
this is the tab and you're tempted to click on publish.
Don't forget these little tabs appear.
Just make sure you kind of work through those tapped as well.
Easy to miss those.
And so especially this tab this is where all those keywords are really going to come in handy.
And so it's very easy to miss that tab.
So we're gonna go ahead and write a good description for this just as much as they'll allow us to do
because it helps with search for people finding and searching your project when they search for specific
keywords so key words.
Think about the keywords for your particular type of projects are going to do branding.
Logo Design.
Logo
marketing golden ratio.
Because this is the golden ratio which is a way to kind of do a logo design.
So that's specific to my project that you can add up to 10.
So really maximize all 10 if you can.
All right.
So when we're done with our keyword let's go ahead and publish this as a real project that I'm posting
so I'm ready to go go out ready to publish.
So it's always a little nerve wracking when you're publishing a project so you can all share your profile
with anybody that you want.
And there it is there's a little quick project we put together on behalf and I'll show you what it looks
like on my profile.
Of course I can always move the video and put the video a little bit higher up
this is what it looks like in the profile.
You could see how important that cover photo is trying to keep it as simple as possible.
So there we go continue to add your projects as you get a chance and build that portfolio and be able
to send that out to clients but also be discovered by who knows who.